Add guide to setup quickiwt on GKE. (#4605)
quickwit-oss/quickwit: docs/deployment/kubernetes/gke.md

---
title: Google GKE
sidebar_position: 2
---

This guide will help you setting up a Quickwit cluster with the right GCS permissions.

## Set up

Before install Quickwit with helm, let's create a namespace for our playground.

```
export NS=quickwit-tutorial
kubectl create ns ${NS}
```

Quickwit stores its index on an object storage, we are going to use GCS which is natively supported since the 0.7 version (for version < 0.7, you should use an S3 interoperability key).

> To ease the pain of setting permissions right, we prepared you a recipe which uses GCP service account and GKE service account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps create a GCP and a GKE service account and bind them together.
```

We are going to create them, set the right permissions and bind them.

```bash
export PROJECT_ID={your-project-id}
export GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=quickwit-tutorial
export GKE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=quickwit-sa
export BUCKET=your-bucket

kubectl create serviceaccount ${GKE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT} -n ${NS}

gcloud iam service-accounts create ${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT} --project=${PROJECT_ID}

gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding gs://${BUCKET} \
--member "serviceAccount:${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
--role "roles/storage.objectAdmin"

# Notice that the member is related to a namespace.
gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding ${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
--role roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser \
--member "serviceAccount:${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog[${NS}/${GKE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}]"

# Now we can annotate our service account!
kubectl annotate serviceaccount ${GKE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT} \
iam.gke.io/gcp-service-account=${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
-n ${NS}
```

## Install Quickwit using Helm

> We're now ready to install Quickwit on GKE. If you need details about Helm, look at the [generic guide](./helm.md) for installing Quickwit on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are now ready to install Quickwit on GKE. If you'd like to know more about Helm, consult our [comprehensive guide](./helm.md) for installing Quickwit on Kubernetes.
```

```bash
helm repo add quickwit https://helm.quickwit.io
helm repo update quickwit
```

Let's set Quickwit `values.yaml`:

```yaml
# We use the edge version here as we recently fixed
# a bug which prevents the metastore from running on GCS.
image:
    repository: quickwit/quickwit
    pullPolicy: Always
    tag: edge

config:
  default_index_root_uri: gs://{BUCKET}/qw-indexes
  metastore_uri: gs://{BUCKET}/qw-indexes

```

We're ready to deploy:

```bash
helm install <deployment name> quickwit/quickwit -f values.yaml
```

## Check that Quickwit is running

> It should take a few seconds for the cluster to start. During the startup process individual pods might restart themselves several times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should take a few seconds for the cluster to start. During the startup process, individual pods might restart themselves several times.
```

> To access the UI, you can run the command and open your browser at [http://localhost:7280](http://localhost:7280):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the UI, you can run the following command and then open your browser at [http://localhost:7280](http://localhost:7280):
```
